Ottoman era.
The widest conquering era in the Islamic history after Righteous Claiphs. They have reached parts of Europe and minor Asia.
The top conquest is Constantinople one by Sultan Muhammad Al Fatih.
Though, it wasn't only military power, but it was a unifying power that gathers all Muslims around, and got their status back after Caliphs defeat in Baghdad.
The country was established in 699 Hijri, but the real time for establishing this country was after the Constantinople conquest in 857 Hijri.
In 923, After Mamalik overthrow in Egypt and Abbassy overthrow in Baghdad. Ottoman era announced the beginning of the new Caliph era.
They started ruling major parts of the Islamic world until its overthrow in 1924, 1337 Hijri.
Ottoman Sultans cared for architecture a lot. So, they built mosques in most of the conquered places.
In Ourkhan's era, he had built Boursa mosque, and a big school beside it for teaching religious science.
When they conquered Ezmir, they had built a huge mosque and a huge school too; some people consider it, the first Ottoman University.
In Bayazeed Ibn Murad era, they built a center for making ships and repairing them in Ghaliboly city.
In Muhammad Al Fatih era, they have reached a new method for building the huge cannons that they used to conquer Constantinople.
The architect figure Senan lived in the Ottoman era, whom some people consider a landmark in the Islamic architecture.
Senan was responsible for architecture in Constantinople that are still fascinating till today.
Attaturk overthrew Islamic Caliph, Jews and the west supported him to do, and that was the announcement of the Ottoman empire end.
Though, the architect and civil effects are still witnesses on the greatness of this era.